1. what do you mean by JDK and JRE and JVM ?

2. Can we wright the STATIC PUBLIC VOID MAIN instead of PUBLIC STATIC VOID MAIN ?

3. Can we make constructor as static or final or abstract ? Why?

4. Which class is supermost class of all classes in java ? What are the avialable methods in that class ?

5. What is the difference betweenn aggregation and composition ?

6. Why java does not supported pointers ? and what is pointers ?

7. what logic you use for swapping the two numbers?

8.What is the unary and binary operators?

9.Explain the hirarchy of exception in java ?

10. What is getter and setter method in java ?

11. What is the difference between this() and super() keyword in java ?

12. What is pojo in java ?

13. What is difference between array and arrayList?

14. What is difference between arraylist and LinkedList?

15. What is difference between List and set ?

16. What is difference between String and Stringbuffer ?

17. What is difference between StringBuffer and stringbuilder ?

18. What is difference between String and stringbuilder?

19. What is difference between throw and throws in java ?
 
20. What is difference between final and finally and finalize in java ?

21. What is difference between colloction and collections ?

22. Can we make constructor as private?

A)Yes, we can declare a constructor as private. 
If we declare a constructor as private we are not able to create an object of a class.?

23. How many ways to reverse a string?

24.what are the different types of packages ?

25.which package which imported dafault in java? ANs=java.lang

26. How many methods are you aware on arrays and StringBuffer and String Builder and ArrayList and LinkedList and HashStack and Linked Hashstack and Hashmap and LinkedHashMap?

27. Difference Between this called statement  and super called statement in Java?

28. Explain the collection hirarchy ?

28.Which interface is the top most interface in collection ? which interface is not inherited from collection interface ?

29.What is iterator class in java and tell me its methods ?

30.What is array ? why we need array?

31.What is string why we need string ?

32.What are different types of exception you know in java ?

33.Why strings are immutable in java ?

34.What is stack over flow error ?

35.is garbage collector is for the heap memory or stack memory ? A) heap memory

36.in java Which class that we cant create an object for that class ? and also which class contains a defalut constructor as private ?

37.Can we achive call by rerference in  java ?

38.Can we use the throw keyword in the catch block ?

39.
 ?

A)Yes, It is possible to have a try block without a catch block by using a final block.

public class TryBlockWithoutCatch {
   public static void main(String[] args) {
      try {
         System.out.println("Try Block");
      } finally {
         System.out.println("Finally Block");
      }
   }
}

40.what is operators what are the different types of operators? 

41.if there are theree class A and B and C  how will access all the methods of A and B from c ?

42.There are two methods with the same name different type of parameters but both methods are declaring different specifiers ex:
>>>>1St==

public void m1(String name)
{

}
private void m1(int age)
{

}

is it the example of overloading?
===>ANS: yes it is example of overloading for achiving overloading we declare same method with the different types of parameters
no need of return types and access modifiers should be same 

43.What is class and object in java?

44.What is variable ?what are the different types of variables?

45.what is datatype ?What are the different types of datatypes ?

46.What is literals in java? what are the types of literals ?

47.what is implicit convertion and explicit conversion in java?

48.What are the default values of primitive datatypes?

49.What are the control statements in java?

50.What is Scanner class ?what are the different methods in scanner class ?

51.what is the difference between next() and nextLine()?
A)
next() takes the input from the user with no space.

nextLine(0) takes the input from the user with space .

52.What is oop and tell me the concepts in oops?

53.What is a method in java?what are different types of methods ?

54.What is constructor ?What are the different types of constructors?

55.What are the access modifiers?can you tell me briefly about it ?

56.What is encapsulation?tell me the example of fully encapsulated class in java and advantages >>Java bean is fully encapusulated class

57.What is an abstraction in java?

A)Abstraction in Java refers to hiding the implementation details of a code and exposing only the necessary information to the user.

58.What are the difference between Abstract and interface in java?

A)Abstract class can have abstract and non-abstract methods.             Interface can have only abstract methods. 
                                                                         Since Java 8, it can have default and static methods  also                                                                                                       

Abstact class cant support multiple inheritence                           interface support multiple inheritence

We use abstract keyword for declaration                                  we use interface key word for declaration

 

59.Can we make abstract class or method private?

A)If a method of a class is private, you cannot access it outside the current class, 
not even from the child classes of it. But, incase of an abstract method,
 you cannot use it from the same class, you need to override it from subclass and use. 


60.What is an interface ?

61.What is an array?How many ways to declare an array ?

62.What is an exception in java ?How can you handle the exceptions ? What its types ? Which is the supermost exception in java ?

63.Why java is not 100% object oriented?

A)the 8 primitive datatypes in java is not objects thats why we can not call java is 100% object oriented

64.why java is a platform independent?

A) The compilation code of java can run any operating system thats why we call java is platform independent.

65.Can we inherited the final classes?

66.Can we inherited the abstract classes?

67.Can we extend the interface from a class?

68.Can we extendd the interface from another interface?

69.What are the difference between array and collections?

70.What is String ? avilable methods of string ?

71.What is Map?

72.What are the difference between HashMap and LInkedHashmap?

73.What are the difference between List and map?

74.What is wrapper classes?

75.Explain about jvm architechture ?

76.Why we need interfaces when we have abstract class?

A)In a simple way abstract classes can not support multiple inheritence but interfaces supports.

77.What is class not found exception ?

A)ClassNotFoundException in Java is a checked exception 
that occurs when the JVM attempts to load a class but can not locate the class in the classpath

78.What is IO exception in java ?

A) It is a checked exception IOException that is thrown when a file or directory cannot be found.

79.Can we declare a multiple catch blocks of a single try?

80.What are the drawbacks of an arrays?

81.Can we declare a local variable as static?

82.Tell me the predefined classes of java?

83.public class thisKeyword ? Tell me the output of this programs 
{
int a;
String b;
double d;

void m1(int a,String b,double d)
{
System.out.println("I am prem")
}

public static void main(String args[])
{
thisKeyword t=new thisKeyword();
t.m1(1,"thatha",1.11);

System.out.println(t.a);
System.out.println(t.b);
System.out.println(t.d);

}

}

84.what is the difference between the deque and priorityque?

85.What is the diffence between the HashMap and LinkedHashMap?

86.Do you know about regular experessionss?

87.Can we create a static abstract methods of as interface?

88.Can we make interface as final ?

89.What is the difference between the abstract method and final method?
























